---
layout: default
title: Privacy Statement
permalink: /en/privacy-statement/
lang: en
ref: privacy statement
comments: false
position: bottom
alt: "Privacy-statement"
---
<!-- Start editing content here -->
Please be aware that data transfer using the internet (e.g. communication via e-mail) is subject to security risks. A complete protection of data against access by third parties is not possible.  

We expressly prohibit the use of our contact data by any third party for the purpose of sending unwanted sales promotion and other information (e.g. spam mails).

## Personal data  

The website may be used without entering personal information. Different rules may apply to certain services on our site, however, and are explained separately below. Without your explicit consent or a legal basis, your personal data are not passed on to third parties.  

Your personal data are used exclusively, and only for as long as they are needed, for fulfilling the purposes for which they were collected. After expiry of deadlines as per tax-related and commercial regulations, these data are deleted unless you have expressly consented to their further use.

## Information, deletion, blocking  

According to the Federal Data Protection Act, you have a right to free-of-charge information about your stored data, and possibly entitlement to correction, blocking or deletion of such data. In such cases please get in contact via the contact information you can find on the imprint of the website.    

## Statistical data for the operator of the website  

This website uses Piwik for web analytics. For this, "cookies" send text files, user activity logs (including a log of your abbreviated IP address) to the server and stored them for user analytics after anonymisation. The information about the website usage generated by the cookie will not be passed on to third parties. You can block the installation of cookies by changing a setting in your browser software; however, please be aware that, if you block cookies, you might not have full utilization to all functionalities of this website.  

If you do not want to consent to the storage and analysis of the user information generated, you can opt out as described below. In that case, your browser will store a deactivation cookie which prevents Piwik from gathering any data on your session whatsoever.  

Attention: Deleting your cookies will also delete your deactivation cookie, which means you will have to save a new one.  
<!-- Stop editing content here -->
## Opt-out    

<iframe style="border: 0; height: 200px; width: 100%;" src="//piwik.gwdg.de/index.php?module=CoreAdminHome&action=optOut&language=en"></iframe>

<!-- Start editing content here -->
